Introduce SQL migrations (#907)
kubearchive/kubearchive: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/design/database-migrations.adoc

= Database Migrations

This document details the database migration strategy KubeArchive uses. The main goals
of the migrations are:

* Make the upgrade experience easier
* Undo DB changes if something goes wrong

**Note**: the implementation of database migrations does not include the execution of those
migrations. We believe that you should not modify production databases in an unattended way
so we expect the KubeArchive operator to execute the migrations.

== Requirements

> * The same database user that KubeArchive uses run the migrations to avoid permissions problems.

Author: Fixed.

* Migrations migrate data as well as the schema.

> * Migrations have forward and backwards implementation (`up` and `down` files).

Author: Fixed

== Implementation

We decided to use the
link:https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate[`migrate` tool]
due to its popularity and because it's well maintained. It automates part of the migration
process but you can replace it if needed.

Each database engine integration provides a `migrations` folder (`integrations/database/<db-name>/migrations`).

> All migrations have two files: `up` for upgrades and `down` for rollbacks.

Author: I picked downgrade.

= Database Migrations

This document details the database migration strategy KubeArchive uses. The main goals
of the migrations are:

* Make the upgrade experience easier
* Undo DB changes if something goes wrong

**Note**: the implementation of database migrations do not include the execution of those
migrations. We believe that production databases should not be modified in an unattended way

> so we expect the KubeArchive operator to execute the migrations.

Author: Hm... I don't like the word maintainer here. I understand what you mean, but we already have "maintainer" as someone that maintains KubeArchive's code. "user" may be better than "operator" but I think that will lead to discuss what is a user

> **Note**: the implementation of database migrations do not include the execution of those
> migrations. We believe that production databases should not be modified in an unattended way
> so we leave to the KubeArchive operator the migration executions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: the implementation of database migrations do not include the execution of those
migrations. We believe that production databases should not be modified in an unattended way
so we expect the KubeArchive operator to execute the migrations.
```

== Requirements

> * Migrations are run by KubeArchive's PostgreSQL user to avoid permission problems.

Author: Changed to use the active tense. Note that this is not referring to the human, this is referring to the user account that runs the actual SQL script of the migration.

> * Migrations are run by the PostgreSQL user that KubeArchive uses, to avoid permission problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Migrations are run by KubeArchive's PostgreSQL user to avoid permission problems.
```

* Migrations migrate data as well as the schema.
* Migrations have forward and backwards implementation (`up` and `down` files).

== Implementation

We decided to use the
link:https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate[`migrate` tool]
due to its popularity and because it's well maintained. It automates certain
processes related with migrations, but it's a thin layer that can be easily understood

> and replaced if needed.

Author: Changed.

> We decided to use the
> link:https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate[`migrate` tool]
> due to its popularity and because its maintained. This tool automates certain
> processes related with migrations, but its a thin layer that can be easily understood
> and replaced if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided to use the
link:https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate[`migrate` tool]
due to its popularity and because it's well maintained. It automates certain
processes related with migrations, but it's a thin layer that can be easily understood
and replaced if needed.
```

The migrations files are provided for each database KubeArchive supports in its integration
folder (`integrations/database/<db-name>/migrations`). Each migration has two files: `up` and `down`,
which enables rollbacks. The `up` file applies changes in tables and data and the `down` files undoes
those changes. Each file should start with a two digit number and an underscore (for example

> `01_initial.up.sql` and `01_initial.down.sql`).

Author: Changed.

> The migrations files are provided for each database KubeArchive supports within its integration
> folder (`integrations/database/<db-name>/migrations`. Each migration has two files: `up` and `down`,
> which enables rollbacks. The `up` file applies changes in tables and data and the `down` files undoes
> those changes. Each file should start with a two digit number and an underscore (for example
> `01_initial.up.sql` and `01_initial.down.sql`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migrations files are provided for each database KubeArchive supports in its integration
folder (`integrations/database/<db-name>/migrations`). Each migration has two files: `up` and `down`,
which enables rollbacks. The `up` file applies changes in tables and data and the `down` files undoes
those changes. Each file should start with a two digit number and an underscore (for example
`01_initial.up.sql` and `01_initial.down.sql`).
```

== Execution

> To apply migrations with `migrate` the command line looks like this:

Reviewer 2: I suggest a more schematic view:

```suggestion
=== Apply all migrations to get the schema up-to-date
```

[source,bash]
----
migrate \
    -path migrations/ \
    -database <driver>://<username>:<password>@<ip/dns>:<port>/<database> \
    up

> ----

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to know how many migrations are we applying with this command so we know how many we should downgrade in a rollback?

Also, what happens if one of the migration fails? It rollbacks to the initial state?

> The command `up` runs all non-applied migrations. To rollback one version, use `down 1`:

Reviewer 2: Following the previous comment suggestion:

```suggestion
=== Rollback one version
```
